Encapsulation

Used to restrict accessing the properties of a class to the outside world

in this,  the sensitive dataa is hidden from the users

use access specifiers to clare fields as private

use properties to create public get and set methods to access and update the private members


Access specifiers/modifiers

are used to define the scope of the TYPE as well as the scope of their MEMBERS

TYPE:
 classes, structs, enum, interfaces, delegates

type members:
variables, properties, constructors, methods within a type

popular access specifiers
1. public   -- accessible for all the classes
2. private  -- within the class
3. protected  -- within same class and inherited class
4. Internal  -- only within files in the same assembly(.dll)

also protected internal, privvate protected etc.


Protected access Modifier
----------------------------

We know that protected members are accessible in the same class or in the inherited class

But inorder to access the protected member of parent class inside child class, access the protected member using child class's object


Internal access specifier

internal members are accessible within the same assembly group

an assembly is a project that has been compiled  into a .DLL or .EXE for the purpose of VisualStudio

we can logically call a project as an assembly group


Important

I) Public access specifier is the global access specifier


ie. it is accessible 
1. inside the same class
2. outside the class
3. in same assembly(within the project)  --  add name space
4. in different assembly(in different projects)  
         -- add reference
         -- make the class public
         -- add name space

II) Internal access specifier is only accessible in the same assembly(not posible in different projects)

how to add reference:

select project -> add->reference->projects-> select the project you want to add
OR
goto project->references->projects-> select the project you want to add


* The default access specifier for a class is internal

Types
most fundamental type  -> class
 internal, public

type members  -> all the 5 types
































